# DeSci: How to get your research funded

Getting financing is not an easy task for a researcher. Arranging things with institutions, journals, and grantmakers will often be complicated, for you have to meet a lot of contradictory demands and it is not always useful for the research itself. But there is an alternative way of raising funds, and it is called DeSci, or decentralized science. Let’s see step by step how it works.

What’s wrong with the traditional grant system
There are serious problems with the grant funding system.
Long wait. Several years will pass before a researcher gets a grant from the first attempt to a successful one.
Lack of transparent criteria of the review. A small committee of individuals assesses proposals, so not always pick the best one: the same proposal may get different assessments in different grant review panels.
Corruption. Self-interests of grant review panels often impact;
Short-term grants. They rarely exceed 3 years, which prevents scientists from complicated strategic research planning.
Publish-or-perish reality. To get grants, you must show only positive results, which is contrary to the nature of research. 
By some assessments, many of the researchers spend 50% of their time writing grants. https://www.vox.com/2016/7/14/12016710/science-challeges-research-funding-peer-review-process#1 
The existing funding system is elitarian, it creates bottlenecks and is prone to bias. It conflicts with the very idea of research as something new and changing. 
Decentralized science (DeSci) comes to improve the situation.

What is DeSci and how it works
DeSci is, basically, an open science on the blockchain. As blockchain provides transparency, security, and distribution, it aims to help scientists to make the whole process of research funding, conducting, and publication faster, easier, more effective, and more accessible. There are different blockchains to be used for DeSci, and the most popular is Ethereum. Nevertheless, it's not the best of existing chains, but most noticeable, with tradeable digital assets on it and with lower access barriers for web3-developers on it.
DeSci builds a global infrastructure of decentralized organizations (DAOs) without no governing centers inside: decision-making and information storage are distributed among all members of the community. Not all, but several significant mechanisms of community governance and digital assets exchange in such organizations are predefined in smart contracts which are performed automatically.
Many Web3 mechanisms create the DeSci environment. They change all the studies of a research life cycle offering various instruments for traditional science tasks. 
Let’s see, for example, how it changes the procedure of publishing and assessment of the proposal. Instead of scientific journals and h-index, DeSci has mechanisms that suggest that your reputation grows when you review your colleague’s article or make any other real input, and other community members estimate it. For example, it can be done through commit-fungible tokens (CFT), as we do it in GOSH, https://blog.gosh.sh/p/feature-preview-commit-fungible-tokens 
which are given to you after community members confirm your commitment. Your CFT also grows when you review others' proposals, take part in mentoring, participate in other authors' research, and perform any other activity concerning your subject.
Other processes are reformed too. In the DeSci environment, you can easily collaborate and share all resources, data https://docs.ipfs.tech/concepts/what-is-ipfs/ , and equipment included (see LabDao https://labdao.xyz ). 
The "sine qua non" part of the research process is funding. Let’s speak about it in more detail.

Problems with funding begin with IP
Apart from funding, research conducting creates value and thus intellectual property, and here the story begins. Through Web3 instruments (NFT, for example) IP can be distributed, providing new ways to own and govern it, and also to interact with trade secrets and publicity rights. Smart contracts, timestamps, and immutability of public blockchains allow for the safety and accessibility of IP. Moreover, it is easy to add IP value if some new commitment is made. Web3 instruments change the very nature of IP. Paul Cohlhaas, a co-founder of Molecule and VitaDAO, says: “We move IP into a more open structure where essentially fundraising around the IP is not tied to an individual organization, but you can distribute ownership to multiple participants. And those participants can now move in and out of the IP ownership and confirm the IP in a more decentralized way.” All this has a legal basis because we transform IP into a distributed value and treat it as we treat distributed value in other conditions, like shares and co-owning.
As DeSci is still in its childhood, not all situations are properly managed yet. There could appear problems if you do not have full ownership of the IP because you share it with your institution. An additional agreement between the institution and the DAO would be needed to regulate this situation.
If the result of the research can be commercialized DAO can return its value to finance fundamental research. Therefore, we form a self-sustaining scientific community in which one researcher can “feed” another. It is also about long-term financing for scientists which gives them the possibility to think in terms of decades and to plan their research strategically. 

Funding in the DeSci paradigm
There are several possible mechanisms of sustainable and reliable funding suggested by DeSci.
1.Crowdfunding: members of the community can give their money to fund the research or somehow participate in it (for example, with the necessary data or equipment). Crowdfunding Web3 mechanisms may also be added to the traditional charity, as the Antidote (///) does, for faster execution of the process, which is important in R&D funding.
2.Sponsorship by buying IP NFT. An investor can buy the NFT project, or several investors can unite and buy it together, thus participating in intellectual property. As we have already mentioned above, this may not add up bias or commercial interest to the research, because IP NFT remains distributed. 
3.Direct voting in DAO. Community members in DAO can vote for your proposal with their voting tokens. These resemble shares in a digital world: owning a token gives you the right to vote for the research you love. Sometimes for better assessment of the project, there is also a community of experts that estimates the value of the research before it is put on voting.
Your first step then is to upload your proposal (or your research plan before conducting the research) and get tokens for that, if it is approved by the DAO’s community. With your tokens, you can vote for others' research in the community. Others, in return, vote for your proposal. If it gets a majority and passes, you can sell them and get your real money to buy equipment and all you need for her research. Also, by voting for the others’ research you can earn a share in its IP and get your money back if it is a commercialized clinical trial or some other profitable research. Smart contract conditions will give you your money back after its successful launch.

Where to go to get funded
There are several places to look at if you are conducting research in Life Sciences. You shouldn’t be an institution or have a patent to get funding. All these places take applications from individual researchers and teams. 
Here https://gainforest.app/science are possibilities to raise funds for your projects concerning ecology, wildlife observation, soil, and water collection, etc.
VitaDAO www.vitadao.com finances early-stage research for longevity, the extension of human life, and health span. They have already funded more than 10 research concerning Alzheimer’s disease, aging, and other subjects. You can buy Vita tokens or earn them through collaboration. VitaDAO has over 1300 token holders for now. VitaDAO has applicational terms, but you can still apply all year round. It may be not clear at the first sight, so we made a guide on VitaDAO for you: https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/jocelyn-diary-1st-week-how-stay-alive-vitadao-oksana-stanevich 
The Molecule DAO www.molecule.to aims to join together researchers and potential investors, having for now over 4500 DAO community members, and 3 Bio DAOs with over $10M in their network that goes on research. It is a great hub for DAOs seeking financing and investors in need of insightful startups. Next Saturday The Molecule will appear in our newsletter “What’s the hell with DeSci tools”.
The Crowdfunded Cures https://crowdfundedcures.org is a crowdfunding platform for incentivizing clinical trials for off-patent medicines. The issue is global: “There are over 20k off-patent drugs and nutraceuticals that could be repurposed to treat and potentially cure new diseases for 1/100th of the cost and 5-10x faster than new patented drugs”, the platform claims, but Big Pharma will never pay for it. So, they develop a new mechanism to speed things up and re-patent good drugs. They call it Social Impact Bond and use a pay-for-success (PFS) model which guarantees that investors only finance a medical breakthrough. Interestingly, this PFS contract is going to be backed by healthcare payers: governments, health insurers, philanthropy, and the public via crowdfunding.
Antidote (www.antidotedao.org) deals with cancer research initiatives. It is a non-profit DAO using Web3 tools to make donations more effective and transparent. For a better assessment of research proposals, they created a Scientific Advisory Committee made up of members of the Cancer Research Scientific community. 
We know more about DeSci initiatives, but most of them are still in the process of launching, so we are going to write about them later on. 

Our main idea is as follows: as a traditional scientist far from the blockchain you are not doomed to the traditional (slow and conservative) way of funding your research. Even if you are not a well-known researcher with a high h-index, you can get financing via DeSci projects. But DeSci initiatives still should pay attention to the usability of their products. Independent & decentralized funding will be still impossible if nobody can deal with such a number of unclear actions to be done on the platform.

 

