# Public Health in danger: Open Science comes to the rescue
Public Health in our days faces severe challenges. Among them, there are COVID-19 and other potential epidemics; climate change-related issues; antibiotic resistance; poor access to health care; problems concerning agricultural practice and the food chain; and many others. New threats emerge on an ongoing basis, and the PH sphere appears to be too slow to meet the increasing demands for quick response. Open science can come as a salvation, rearranging the whole process of PH problem solving, from research and development to medical practice, and from human behavior to political decisions. Let us see how it can be.

Pandemics: Enemy at the Gates
The COVID-19 pandemic showed how inefficient global healthcare is. PH was retarding every step, from research publishing to the media campaign for vaccination. Much research stuck unpublished due to insufficient funding or interest conflicts and didn't reach either a general society or even a professional community. And even if reached, it came too late for clinicians and health technology assessment groups to save patients' lives. At the same time, we saw many inappropriate and dangerous studies published that led to great mistakes in healthcare regulatory policies. Government regulations made additional complications to the whole thing.
Studies show the risk of extreme pandemics could increase threefold in coming decades due to global warming increasing the risk of zoonotic diseases and changing the transmission dynamics of mosquito-borne infections. That calls for developing mechanisms for rapid response to disease outbreaks and building capacity for pandemic surveillance.
https://www.gavi.org/vaccineswork/new-study-suggests-risk-extreme-pandemics-covid-19-could-increase-threefold-coming
How can Open Science help us cope with pandemics? 
In the Open Science world, there will be an alternative space for many small research groups to easily get attention from the global scientific community, which multiplies high-quality study proposals from scientists living all around the world. That increases the probability of timely spotting and adequate assessment of coming pandemic threats. All the research concerning treatment, vaccines, etc. will become much more urgent and transparent, which gives health regulators the possibility to act quickly and receptively. Medics, patients, and the general public will receive transparent and honest information in time.

Climate change as a new health threat: The Day After Tomorrow
Climate change is an essential factor that is already having a huge bearing on the human population's perspective. Air pollution, lack of water, droughts, flooding, and heavy storms impact greatly Public Health. A study in Nature Climate Change showed that over half of infectious diseases have been aggravated by climate change.
https://www.gavi.org/vaccineswork/over-half-infectious-diseases-made-worse-climate-change
Environmental challenges will be growing in future decades becoming the greatest threat to human health, many experts believe.
And again, we see that global centralized initiatives are clumsy and slow. In the tech innovation world, we don't see much of it in the field: predictably, one of the reasons is that the first regions to suffer from the consequences of climate change are the poorest ones. That leads to a dramatic disbalance between areas of investor's interest and the vitality of the question. 
How can Open Science help to control climate change?
In the Open Science world, beneficiaries see their gain better and more directly because they can directly participate in it. Therefore, Open Science helps focus on the fact that climate change prevention is advantageous: the faster we begin to solve climate change issues, the more each of us wins from it. As a result, there will be more possibilities for public and scientists to contribute to climate research and control. 

Poor access to health care: The Battle Of Life

Health care is not equally accessible to people in different parts of the world. Infant mortality, life longevity, and the statistics of many diseases' curability vary greatly relating to geography. In many countries there is also inequality between the rich and the poor: people can not afford appropriate medical aid. Neither right nor left political systems haven't yet suggested an effective solution to the problem: high taxes and social guarantees do not necessarily lead to the improvement of the healthcare system, and many states just don't have a sufficient budget for it.
Another serious problem concerning healthcare access is that many people around the world suffer from wars. Wars destroy critical infrastructure, and humanitarian crisis makes people more vulnerable to diseases. Many have to migrate, often worsening their social condition and also losing access to health care.
How can Open Science help people get access to health care?

Though at first sight, it seems like a political issue, it is closely connected with Health Technologies. This gives hope for new cheap instruments that can help the poor regardless of their geographical position. Open science mechanisms have the potential to allow people to vote for research concerning cheap and effective diagnostics and treatment, and in our Jocelyn DAO, we are going to develop these mechanisms. Telemedicine development can bring high-quality medical service to remote places. Replicable medical education technologies provide more accessible knowledge for doctors around the globe. 
Besides, new decentralized instruments of money accumulation and allocation are badly needed in this sphere, which makes small or remote initiatives visible to investors. Open science helps underrepresented communities vote for public health decisions, reduce barriers and increase access to health care for people affected by wars or migration.

Antibiotic resistance: Up the Down Staircase
Antibiotic consumption has exploded over the past three decades, growing by 46% from 2000 to 2021.
https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lanplh/article/PIIS2542-5196(21)00280-1/fulltext
Developing countries made the most of the increase. But microbes, just like people, go global. They travel by air gaining a gene pool for developing resistance and spreading it across continents. Even if one region restricts antibiotic use, soon or more it will inevitably “catch” resistant strains, and the pressure of selection will lead it to the top. That has partially happened with tuberculosis and is about to happen with many other bacteria, which can soon return us to a pre-antibiotic era. 
These dramatic circumstances are largely due to regulators' inability to understand the nature of antibiotic misuse, prophylactic use, diagnostic imprecision, and self-prescription. These social factors come from low income, poor accessibility to health care, and – for doctors – low professional confidence, due to lack of high-quality information from the studies or lack of access to it. 

How can Open Science help fight antibiotic resistance?
Managing the problem of microbial resistance requires real-time knowledge about it. A research process, as it is organized now, fails to respond to the problem of antibiotic resistance on time. Networked science accelerates the research process, attaining the capability to answer specific real-time situations. To combat antibiotic resistance, saving time in the knowledge-creation process is crucial. In an open environment, people get a chance to share and recombine ideas faster than microbes do with their genes, thus winning the race.
Vet public health, and agricultural issues: All Creatures Great And Small
Veterinary public health is an underestimated issue that influences Public Health greatly. There are several ways of that influence, from which the food chain is the most obvious but not the only. Zoonotic diseases can threaten human security, and the role of these pathogens will be growing because of climate change. The population of many species shrinks, thus making pathogens mutate and seek new hosts in humans. Agriculture is also closely connected with animal and human wellness. Irrigation, pesticide use, and waste management make a huge impact on the quality of life, especially in developing countries.
How can Open Science help deal with vet public health?
Members of different scientific communities exchange ideas and help each other to articulate burning issues. Open science empowers comparative and interdisciplinary research: biologists, biochemists, veterinarians, medics, and public health specialists can form quick connections to see things from different sides. That will draw more public attention towards not-so-popular but critical problems between human and animal wellness. 

The Jocelyn DAO: treating Public Health issues

Jocelyn is the first DAO dealing with Public Health. It is created for decentralized research initiatives in Health Sciences on the Git Open Source Holder (GOSH) blockchain, the unique use case of asynchronous blockchain with millions of git objects already uploaded by users. We start with Public Health as the most critical point, but, with time, our scalable DeSci strategy will also include several corresponding DAOs dealing with other Sciences.

We have named our DAO after Jocelyn Bell Burnell, the female astrophysicist who won the Nobel Prize but did not receive it because she was a woman and a graduate student at the time. That is because we are striving to make all initiatives visible via organizing new decentralized ways of transparent and independent research and fundraising. That will contribute to more quick and adaptable public healthcare in which the above-mentioned threats can be detected and cured in time.
Public Health is a public good. We all benefit from it. Open Science provides direct ways of participating in PH, making people involved and interested. Forming sustainable decentralized infrastructures, with a free flow of research data and ideas, Open Science can help fast-track vital scientific research in low-income countries, accelerate disaster management, and, after all, save lives.

